Update union matching section in proposals/unions.md according to the latest LDM decision (#10230)
dotnet/csharplang: proposals/unions.md

#### Union matching

When the input value of a pattern is of a union type or of a nullable of a union type, 
the nullable value and the underlying union value's contents may be "unwrapped", depending on the pattern.

The compiler will prefer implementing pattern behavior by means of members prescribed by the non-boxing access pattern.
While it is free to do any optimization within the bounds of the well-formedness rules,
the following are the minimum set guaranteed to be applied:

* For a pattern that implies checking for a specific type `T`, if a `TryGetValue(S value)` method is available,

>   and there is an identity, or implicit reference/boxing conversion from `T` to `S`, then that method is used

Reviewer: Is there a reasonable example of a boxing conversion between S and T that would make sense to allow the method to be called?  If boxing is involved at all, wouldn't the simpler solution be to use the Value property instead?

Author: These are existing rules. I am not changing them. Structures to an interface is a boxing conversion, for example. Again, I do not intend changing these rules, they were simply moved

##### Parenthesized pattern

```ANTLR
parenthesized_pattern
    : '(' pattern ')'
    ;
```
The underlying *pattern* is applied to an input value of the enclosing parenthesized pattern and
the resulting output value is the output value of the enclosing parenthesized pattern.

##### Var pattern

See [Var pattern](https://github.com/dotnet/csharpstandard/blob/6156604067898c974df203083b476dfb210a29ba/standard/patterns.md#1124-var-pattern).

Underlying union value is not unwrapped. This applies to all forms of the `var pattern`. 
```csharp
if (GetPet() is var pet) { ... } // 'pet' is the union value returned from `GetPet`
```

##### Type pattern

See [Type pattern](https://github.com/dotnet/csharpstandard/blob/6156604067898c974df203083b476dfb210a29ba/standard/patterns.md#1128-type-pattern).
```ANTLR
type_pattern
    : type
    ;
```

Given a pattern input value *e* of a union type or of a nullable of a union type, test is done against both
the union instance and the union's value. If either of the tests succeed, then the pattern succeeds. The union
instance is always tested first and then the union value only if the union test failed.

> Union `Value` is *pattern compatible* with *type* when there is a t least one *element type* that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Union `Value` is *pattern compatible* with *type* when there is at least one *element type* that
```

    : discard_designation
    | single_variable_designation
    ;
discard_designation
    : '_'
    ;
single_variable_designation
    : identifier
    ;
```

The *declaration_pattern* is equivalent to ```type and var simple_designation```.

``` C#
record Cat(...) : ICat;
union Pet(Cat, Dog) : IPet;

Pet p = new Cat(...);

p is IPet ip      // true, since Pet implements IPet, ip is (IPet)p
p is ICat c       // true, since p.Value is a Cat and Cat implements ICat, c is (ICat)p.Value
```

##### Property pattern

See [Property pattern](https://github.com/dotnet/csharpstandard/blob/6156604067898c974df203083b476dfb210a29ba/standard/patterns.md#1126-property-pattern).
```ANTLR
property_pattern
    : type? property_subpattern simple_designation?
    ;
property_subpattern
    : '{' '}'
    | '{' subpatterns ','? '}'
    ;
```

If the *type* portion of the *property_pattern* is missing, underlying union value is not unwrapped and the matching is done
only against the union instance.

If the *type* portion of the *property_pattern* is present, the pattern is equivalent to
```type and property_subpattern simple_designation?```.

``` c#
record Cat(string Name);
union Pet(Cat, Dog);

> Pet p = new Cat(Name="Fido");

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Pet p = new Cat(Name: "Fido");
```

p is { Name: "Fido" }                      // error: Pet has no 'Name'; applied to p
p is { Value: Cat }                        // true; applied to p
p is Pet { Value: Cat }                    // true; applied to p
p is Cat { Name: "Fido" }                  // true; applied to p.Value
p is {}                                    // true; applied to p and always true for struct union
```

Assuming that `Pet` is a class union and `I1` is an interface with a property `Name` of type string:
``` c#
Pet p = GetPet();

// true when
// - p implements I1 and its I1.Name is "Fido", or
// - when p doesn't implement I1, p.Value implements I1 and its I1.Name is "Fido"

> // The output value for the patter is either (I1)p or (I1)p.Value 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
// The output value for the pattern is either (I1)p or (I1)p.Value 
```

p is I1 { Name: "Fido" }
```

##### Positional pattern

See [Positional pattern](https://github.com/dotnet/csharpstandard/blob/6156604067898c974df203083b476dfb210a29ba/standard/patterns.md#1125-positional-pattern).
```ANTLR
positional_pattern
    : type? '(' subpatterns? ')' property_subpattern? simple_designation?
    ;
subpatterns
    : subpattern (',' subpattern)*
    ;
subpattern
    : pattern
    | subpattern_name ':' pattern
    ;
subpattern_name
    : identifier
    | subpattern_name '.' identifier
    ;
```

If the *type* portion of the *positional_pattern* is missing, underlying union value is not unwrapped and the matching is done
only against the union instance.

If the *type* portion of the *positional_pattern* is present, the pattern is equivalent to
```type and '(' subpatterns? ')' property_subpattern? simple_designation?```.

``` c#
record Cat(string Name);
// a union type with its own deconstruct

> union Pet(Cat, Dog) { public void Deconstruct(out object value) { value = this.Value; }}}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
union Pet(Cat, Dog) { public void Deconstruct(out object value) { value = this.Value; }
```

> Pet p = new Cat(Name="Fido");

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Pet p = new Cat(Name: "Fido");
```

p is ("Fido")           // false: applied to p
p is (Cat)              // true: applied to p
p is Pet (Cat)          // true: applied to p
p is Cat ("Fido")       // true; applied to p.Value
```

Assuming that `Pet` is a class union and `I1` is an interface with a suitable Deconstruct method:
``` c#
Pet p = GetPet();

// true when
// - p implements I1 and its deconstruction is ("Fido"), or
// - when p doesn't implement I1, p.Value implements I1 and its deconstruction is ("Fido")

> // The output value for the patter is either (I1)p or (I1)p.Value 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
// The output value for the pattern is either (I1)p or (I1)p.Value 
```

Underlying union value is not unwrapped.

##### Logical pattern

See [Logical pattern](https://github.com/dotnet/csharpstandard/blob/6156604067898c974df203083b476dfb210a29ba/standard/patterns.md#11210-logical-pattern).
```ANTLR
logical_pattern
    : disjunctive_pattern
    ;

disjunctive_pattern
    : disjunctive_pattern 'or' conjunctive_pattern
    | conjunctive_pattern
    ;

conjunctive_pattern
    : conjunctive_pattern 'and' negated_pattern
    | negated_pattern
    ;

negated_pattern
    : 'not' negated_pattern
    | primary_pattern
    ;
```

For a *negated_pattern* the *negated_pattern* is applied to the same input value and then the result is negated.
The output value of a *negated_pattern* is its input value.

In an `and` pattern, the *input value* of the left pattern is the *input value* of the the `and`.
The *input value* of the right pattern is the *output value* of the left pattern of the `and`.
The *output value* of an `and` pattern is the *output value* of its right pattern.

In an `or` pattern, the *input value* of the left pattern is the *input value* of the the `or`.

> The *input value* of the right pattern is the *input value* of the the `or`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The *input value* of the right pattern is the *input value* of the `or`.
```

    not null and var value  => ... // 'not' applies to the incoming 'Pet', 'null' applies to the its 'Value'.
                                   // 'var value' applies to the incoming 'Pet' because the left branch in this case
                                   // (`not null`) does not change the incoming value for the right branch.
    var pet and Dog         => ... // 'var pet' applies to the incoming 'Pet' and 'Dog' to its 'Value'
    Dog and { Name: "Dog" } => ... // 'Dog' applies to the incoming 'Pet''s `Value` and it is changing the incoming value
                                   // for the right branch to the `Dog` instance. Therefore, the property pattern on the right
                                   // is applied to that `Dog` instance
}
```

Assuming that `Pet` is a class union and `I1` is an interface with a property `Name` of type string:
``` c#
Pet p = GetPet();

// The left pattern is true when
// - p implements I1, or
// - when p doesn't implement I1 and p.Value implements I1
// The output value for the left pattern is either (I1)p or (I1)p.Value,

> // which also serves as in input value for the right patter.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
// which also serves as in input value for the right pattern.
```
